

                         Bounds Subroutines


The plot space is the region of the graphics device that a program can
drawn on.  This overall region may be subdivided or reduced.

Subroutine GSVIEW specifies a view region within the plot space.  The
view region is a fraction of the overall drawing area.  Point (0, 0) is
the lower left corner and (1, 1) is the upper right corner of the plot
space; the view region is any rectangular portion inside.  For example,
the upper right quadrant is selected by placing the lower left corner of
the view region at (0.5, 0.5) and the upper right corner at (1, 1).
Except for square devices, these fractional units are not the same as
the normalized coordinates.

Bounds of the currently set view region are returned by subroutine
GQVIEW.  A view region, or any rectangular fraction of the plot space,
is erased by subroutine GCLPNL.

Margins reduce the plot space.  As a default, there are no margins.
GSMMGN defines margins for plotting in map mode; GSGMGN defines margins
for the graph mode.  No margins apply when plotting on satellite or
radar imagery.  The margins are usually set at about the same time as
the M coordinate system is defined.  The margins remain set for the life
of the coordinate system; calls to change the margins have no effect
until the coordinate system is redefined.  Margins are specified as
either fractions of the plot space or as multiples of the currently set
text character size.  Currently set margins are queried by calls to
GQMMGN and GQGMGN.

Subroutine GQBND is called to query the limits of any of the coordinate
systems.  The bounds of the D, N, V, and P regions are returned exactly
while the bounds of the M and G regions are estimates of the maximum and
minimum values of the coordinates along each axis.

Given a set of points in a particular coordinate system, subroutine
GPTVIS tests which points will be visible and which points will be
clipped if plotted.
