

                           Map Subroutines


In order to plot in Earth coordinates, the map mode is set (with GSMODE)
and a map projection is defined.  GEMPLT includes a comprehensive set of
projections.  Subroutine GSMMAP is used to set a projection using a
simplified method.  Several parameters that define the projection are
derived automatically from the simplified specifications.  Alternately,
subroutine GSMPRJ provides the full capability to define a projection;
it provides control over variables that can produce very complex
results.

Once a projection is defined, anything plotted in M coordinates (station
models, markers, symbols, lines, etc.) is geo-located relative to a map
(whether the map is drawn or not).

GEMPLT includes several map data files as discussed in Appendix B of
this manual.  Subroutine GQMFIL returns the name of the currently set
map file.  An alternate map file is specified by calling GSMFIL.

Once a projection is defined and a map file is set, the map is drawn by
calling GDRMAP.  A latitude/longitude grid is typically drawn at the
same time by calling GDRGRD.

Currently set map projections are queried by calls to GQMMAP and GQMPRJ.

A map may be surrounded by margins.  As a default, there are no margins.
GSMMGN defines margins for plotting in map mode.  The margins are
usually set at about the same time as the M coordinate system is
defined.  The margins remain set for the life of the coordinate system;
calls to change the margins have no effect until the coordinate system
is redefined.  Margins are specified as either fractions of the plot
space or as multiples of the currently set text character size.
Currently set map margins are queried by calls to GQMMGN.
