

                          Plot Subroutines


GEMPLT includes subroutines that draw and plot lines, circles, filled
polygons, text, markers, winds, and various meteorological symbols.

The simplest item to plot is a marker.  Markers are plotted by calling
subroutine GMARK.  The location of the marker's center is given by its
X and Y position in the coordinate system specified at the time of
plotting.  The units of X and Y, and the limits of X and Y (the clipping
boundaries) are dependent on the coordinate system.  When plotting in
Earth coordinates, the X and Y are the latitude and longitude (in
degrees).

The plotting and drawing routines accept lists of X/Y pairs.  Each pair
is a point.  The list is a group of points that share the currently set
attributes.  The list is plotted as a unit (such as a line) or as a
group (such as a group of markers).  The list of points is translated to
the currently set device coordinates, the shapes of the plottable items
are tested against the plot boundaries and clipped if necessary, and the
rest is plotted.

For lines and polygons, the list of X and Y coordinates is a (possibly
large) set of points that are connected by straight line segments.
Smooth curves are achieved by spacing the points close to one another.

Symbols are plotted just like markers except that for each X and Y
reference location there is an additional X and Y offset.  The reference
location is given in terms of a coordinate system while the offsets are
given in terms of the currently set text character size.

Text is plotted either centered or justified relative to its X and Y
reference location.  Offsets are defined for plotting text just like for
symbols.

Wind barbs and wind arrows are plotted exactly at the given X and Y
locations.
